- Charles Spencer’s latest book, To Catch a King, tells us the story of the hunt for King Charles II in the six weeks after his [resounding]([[Resound]]) defeat at the Battle of Worcester in September 1651. And what a story it is. After his father was [executed]([[Execute]]) by the Parliamentarians in 1649, the young Charles II sacrificed one of the very principles his father had died for and did a deal with the [Scots]([[Scot]]), [[Thereby]] accepting Presbyterianism* as the national [[Religion]] in return for being crowned King of Scots. His arrival in Edinburgh [prompted]([[Prompt]]) the English Parliamentary army to invade [[Scotland]] in a pre-emptive strike. This was followed by a [[Scottish]] invasion of England. The two sides finally faced one another at Worcester in the west of England in 1651. After being [[Comprehensively]] defeated on the [meadows]([[Meadow]]) outside the city by the Parliamentarian army, the 21-year-old king found himself the [[Subject]] of a national [[Manhunt]], with a huge sum offered for his capture. Over the following six weeks he managed, through a series of heart-poundingly close escapes, to [[Evade]] the Parliamentarians before seeking [[Refuge]] in France. For the next nine years, the [[Penniless]] and defeated Charles wandered around Europe with only a small group of [[Loyal]] supporters.
- Years later, after his [[Restoration]] as king, the 50-year-old Charles II requested a meeting with the writer and diarist Samuel Pepys. His [[Intention]] when asking Pepys to commit his story to paper was to ensure that this most extraordinary [[Episode]] was never forgotten. Over two three-hour sittings, the king related to him in great detail his personal [recollections]([[Recollection]]) of the six weeks he had spent as a [[Fugitive]]. As the king and secretary settled down (a scene that is surely a gift for a future scriptwriter), Charles [commenced]([[Commence]]) his story: ‘After the battle was so absolutely lost as to be beyond hope of recovery, I began to think of the best way of saving myself.’
- One of the joys of Spencer’s book, a result not least of its use of Charles II’s own [[Narrative]] as well as those of his supporters, is just how close the reader gets to the action. The day-byday [retelling]([[Retell]]) of the [fugitives]([[Fugitive]])’ doings provides delicious details: the cutting of the king’s long hair with agricultural [shears]([[Shear]]), the use of walnut leaves to [[Dye]] his pale skin, and the day Charles spent lying on a branch of the great [[Oak]] tree in Boscobel Wood as the Parliamentary soldiers scoured the forest floor below. Spencer draws out both the [[Humour]] – such as the [[Preposterous]] refusal of Charles’s friend Henry Wilmot to [[Adopt]] [[Disguise]] on the grounds that it was beneath his dignity – and the emotional tension when the secret of the king’s presence was cautiously revealed to his supporters.
- Charles’s adventures after losing the Battle of Worcester hide the uncomfortable truth that [[Whilst]] almost everyone in England had been [appalled]([[Appall]]) by the execution of his father, they had not welcomed the arrival of his son with the Scots army, but had instead [[Firmly]] [bolted]([[Bolt]]) their doors. This was partly because he rode at the head of what looked like a foreign invasion force and partly because, after almost a decade of civil war, people were [[Desperate]] to avoid it beginning again. This makes it all the more interesting that Charles II himself loved the story so much ever after. As well as retelling it to anyone who would listen, causing eyerolling among courtiers, he set in train a series of [initiatives]([[Initiative]]) to memorialize it. There was to be a new order of chivalry, the Knights of the Royal Oak. A series of enormous oil paintings [depicting]([[Depict]]) the episode were produced, including a two-meter-wide [[Canvas]] of Boscobel Wood and a set of six similarly enormous paintings of the king on the run. In 1660, Charles II [commissioned]([[Commission]]) the artist John Michael Wright to paint a flying squadron of cherubs* carrying an oak tree to the heavens on the ceiling of his bedchamber. It is hard to imagine many other kings marking the lowest point in their life so [[Enthusiastically]], or indeed [pulling off]([[Pull off]]) such an escape in the first place.
- Charles Spencer is the perfect person to pass the story on to a new [[Generation]]. His pacey, readable prose [steers]([[Steer]]) [deftly]([[Deftly]]) clear of modern [idioms]([[Idiom]]) and elegantly brings to life the details of the great [[Tale]]. He has even-handed sympathy for both the fugitive king and the fierce [[Republican]] [[Regime]] that hunted him, and he succeeds in his desire to explore far more of the background of the story than previous books on the subject have done. Indeed, the opening third of the book is about how Charles II found himself at Worcester in the first place, which for some will be reason alone to read To Catch a King.