-
- 我住在市中心，所以我去那些高档购物中心和百货商场很方便。 #card
  card-last-interval:: 4.73
  card-repeats:: 2
  card-ease-factor:: 2.6
  card-next-schedule:: 2024-06-16T18:19:36.085Z
  card-last-reviewed:: 2024-06-12T01:19:36.086Z
  card-last-score:: 5
	- I live [[Downtown]], so it's quite convenient for me to go to those [[High-end]] shopping [malls]([[Malls]]) and [[Department]] stores.
- 我和父母住在城市西南部的郊区。 #card
  card-last-interval:: 4
  card-repeats:: 2
  card-ease-factor:: 2.46
  card-next-schedule:: 2024-07-21T10:16:34.170Z
  card-last-reviewed:: 2024-07-17T10:16:34.171Z
  card-last-score:: 5
	- I live with my parents in the southwestern [[Suburb]] of the city.
- 我家有四口人——我的父母，我的姐姐和我 #card
  card-last-interval:: 4.14
  card-repeats:: 2
  card-ease-factor:: 2.7
  card-next-schedule:: 2024-07-21T13:26:41.594Z
  card-last-reviewed:: 2024-07-17T10:26:41.595Z
  card-last-score:: 5
	- There are four people in my family -- my parents, my older sister and me.
- 我有三个兄弟姐妹，这对一个中国家庭来说是很不常见的 #card
  card-last-interval:: 4
  card-repeats:: 2
  card-ease-factor:: 2.22
  card-next-schedule:: 2024-07-21T10:16:14.567Z
  card-last-reviewed:: 2024-07-17T10:16:14.568Z
  card-last-score:: 3
	- I have three [siblings]([[Sibling]]), which is pretty unusual for a Chinese family.
- 我的父母把我培养成了一个有责任心的人。他们告诉我，如果我答应了某人某件事儿，我必须履行诺言。 #card
  card-last-interval:: -1
  card-repeats:: 1
  card-ease-factor:: 2.36
  card-next-schedule:: 2024-07-17T16:00:00.000Z
  card-last-reviewed:: 2024-07-17T10:14:28.072Z
  card-last-score:: 1
	- My parents raised me to be a [[Responsible]] man. They also told me that if I [promised]([[Promise]]) someone something, I had to [[Deliver]].
-
- My dad has been an engineer his entire life and he's going to [[Retire]] in five years.
- I live in an apartment and it's a very small one because I've just graduated from university and I don't make much money now.
- I live in a three-bedroom apartment with my parents.
- I major in Chinese literature because I've always been fond of our traditional culture and poetry.
- I chose to study Japanese primarily because I'd had a [[Penchant]] for Japanese anime ever since I was a kid.
- I've been studying advertising for the past three years. I'm going to pursue a career in this field.
- I'd like to further my studies in Canada after I finish my [[Bachelor]]'s degree.
- I'm working as a [[Fashion]] designer. This was my dream job when I was a teenager and I'm happy that I've [realized]([[Realize]]) this dream.
- My parents have always tried to convince me to become a civil servant because it has great job security.
- I'm in a dead-end job. There's no room for any pay raise or [[Promotion]].
- I'm fed up with my boss and I've been considering changing jobs recently.
- My job is quite [[Rewarding]] and I feel that I'm making a difference to others' lives.
-
-
-